---
layout: post
title: "Prusa i3 MK2"
date: 2018-02-27 21:43:00 +0200
categories: 3d-printing
---
Last year I purchased the new kit version of the original Prusa i3 MK2. It finally arrived and it was worth the waiting. I ordered the third printer only because I want to try building an printer. Both printers I already own are already assembled ones. So I said to me the Prusa has an bigger build volume and an interesting bed leveling function, this are good reasons to buy one :)

Here are some technical specifications for the kit version I purchased:

* Build volume 25 x 21 x 20 cm
* 0,4mm nozzle
* 1,75mm filament diameter
* E3D V6 Full hotend
* PEI print surface & heatbed
* Automatic mesh bed leveling (9 points)
* Integrated controlboard which prints from SD card

# Build
Here are some pictures during the build. The build was so relaxing that I totally forget to do more pictures. Initially there was an time lapse planned for the build, but there are already some on Youtube, so I didn't make it.

For the build I didn't use the printed version of the manual. I used the online version because of the high resolution pictures included. I only had two small issues during the build.

Number one was the motor mount and belt holder on the Y-axis had not big enough holes to slide on the threaded rods. I screwed the threaded rods into the parts what gave me a headache after the assembly, when I tried to correct the position of this parts. Here I totally had to drill the holes wider first so that the parts can slide on the threaded rods.

Number two was the extruder assembly. To get this part together without M3 nuts falling out on each side was a little bit tricky ... to put it charitably :)

{% include image.html path="/images/2017/02/" img="Packages" type="jpg" desc="All packages" %}
{% include image.html path="/images/2017/02/" img="Y_Axis" type="jpg" desc="Assembling the Y-axis" %}
{% include image.html path="/images/2017/02/" img="Y_Axis_Full" type="jpg" desc="Finished Y-axis" %}
{% include image.html path="/images/2017/02/" img="All_Axis" type="jpg" desc="All axis assembled" %}
{% include image.html path="/images/2017/02/" img="Full_Printer" type="jpg" desc="Finished printer" %}

And here is the final printer on its current position:

{% include image.html path="/images/2017/02/" img="Prusa_i3_mk2" type="jpg" desc="Printer on its current position" %}

# Prints
I already printed some parts on the new printer and the overall quality of the prints is simply awesome. But see for yourself:

{% include image.html path="/images/2017/02/" img="3DBenchy" type="jpg" desc="Benchy testprint" %}

This is the 3DBenchy ([thingyverse link](http://www.thingiverse.com/thing:763622)) which I tested with silver PLA and a layer height of 200µm.

{% include image.html path="/images/2017/02/" img="PrusaBottleOpener" type="jpg" desc="Prusa bottle opener" %}

This is a dual-color print which was on the SD card already. Here the print stopped after the silver part was printed. Then you can load new filament into the printer and extrude as much as you need to get the old color out. After the new color extrudes correctly you can resume the print with one click on the controlboard. This is a nice feature which I want to test more in the future.

{% include image.html path="/images/2017/02/" img="SteppermotorHolder" type="jpg" desc="Stepper motor holder" %}

Here is a stepper motor holder which I designed in Autodesk Fusion 360. I scaled the part to 102% and the stepper motor slides in smoothly. Also the print quality is amazing.

{% include image.html path="/images/2017/02/" img="HairyLion" type="jpg" desc="Hairy lion" %}

This is the hairy lion ([thingyverse link](http://www.thingiverse.com/thing:2007221)) in silver PLA. Click on the image for a higher resolution. It came out beautifully.

# Conclusion
So, I love the new Prusa i3 mk2 and I will print many things which doesn't fit on the printbed of my Lulzbot Mini. But the Lulzbot Mini will be used also. Both machines are nice for starting a print and coming back later for the finished part. I can now use my box full of 1,75mm PLA from my first printer with the Prusa and print my 3mm HIPS with the Lulzbot. So no longer unused filament lying in the basement.

Thanks to Josef Prusa and his team for this amazing printer.